The President:
Last night, after weeks of long
and difficult negotiations over
our national budget, leaders of
both parties came together to
avert a government
shutdown, cut spending,
and invest in our future.
This is good news for
the American people.
It means that small businesses
can get the loans they need,
our families can get the
mortgages they applied for,
folks can visit our
national museums and parks,
and hundreds of thousands
of Americans will get their
paychecks on time -- including
our brave men and women in uniform.
This is an agreement to invest
in our country's future while
making the largest annual
spending cut in our history.
Like any compromise, this
required everyone to give ground
on issues that were
important to them.
I certainly did.
Some of the cuts we agreed
to will be painful --
programs people rely
on will be cut back;
needed infrastructure
projects will be delayed.
And I would not have made these
cuts in better circumstances.
But we also prevented this
important debate from being
overtaken by politics and
unrelated disagreements on
social issues.
And beginning to live within our
means is the only way to protect
the investments that will help
America compete for new jobs --
investments in our kids'
education and student loans;
in clean energy and
life-saving medical research.
Reducing spending while still
investing in the future is just
common sense.
That's what families
do in tough times.
They sacrifice where they
can, even if it's hard,
to afford what's
really important.
A few months ago, I was able
to sign a tax cut for American
families because both parties
worked through their differences
and found common ground.
Now, the same cooperation has
made it possible for us to move
forward with the biggest annual
spending cut in history.
And it's my sincere hope that we
can continue to come together as
we face the many difficult
challenges that lie ahead --
from creating jobs and growing
our economy to educating our
children and reducing
our long-term deficits.
That's our responsibility.
That's what the American
people expect us to do.
And it's what the
American people deserve.